# Reflective Writing
## 1. Expectations
Going into this class, I was not sure what to expect. The title "Simulations and Stochastic Modeling" seemed mysterious and the Scrumage practice outlined in the syllabus only added to my confusion. In retrospect, I must say that my expectations for this class were different from the actual class, which was only due to my lack of understanding of the topics.  

I don't know what I expected, because I didn't really put much thought into what we would cover in this class. I mainly opted to enroll in Simulations because it would count as an elective for both my CMS and DTA minors, which worked out well given my time constraints. That being said, I am glad that I took this course because it challenged me on several occasions with interesting problems.  

As already mentioned, after reading the syllabus for the first time, I was very confused by the Scrumage style of learning. I did not think that this would make it easier to me, based on a couple of premature assumptions. First, I imagined the course load to be at a normal level, but only being rewarded a “B” for the same effort it would take me to get an “A” in another class. It seemed like to me, as if in order to get an “A”, I would need to complete uber-complex and time intensive projects (which is due to the fact that they are called “challenge”-projects). However, I realized that the course load was actually much less intense than that of some of my other classes. Additionally, the challenge projects were more like immersion projects that allowed us to explore some topics more in-depth. I actually really enjoyed working on some of the challenge projects, because they were always on very interesting and real-world oriented problems. Another thing I was worried about when first reading about Scrumage was the team aspect. Personally, I tend to be assigned to teams/groups where I tend to end up doing a majority of the work, while all my peers benefit from my hard work. Scrumage does teamwork differently and makes it much more enjoyable – contrary to what I expected. Especially the aspect of getting separate evaluations instead of a single group score, it allows everyone to put in as much effort as they desire, while still allowing for collaboration on the actual problem.

## 2. Responding to a Challenge
I was challenged a couple of times during this class. For example, the time limit on the quizzes was usually barely enough for me, so if I had to double-check something from my notes, I would often end up with only seconds to submit the quiz. On one occasion, this led to me not finishing the quiz on time, resulting in a loss of points.  

A good example of being challenged in class was the "Baccarat" challenge project. I had a good understanding of the ruleset of the Baccarat game, but did not know how to actually tackle the project itself. I had never used Python prior to this class, so that did not help either. I ended up spending more time on this project than I did on all other challenge projects combined, but was still not able to come up with a relatively uncomplicated way of solving the challenge. My main problem was the creation of decks and suites, as I had variables for every card type and many supporting functions to do basic operations on them (creating a deck/suite/etc.). I got very frustrated with the project and decided to abandon it until I either needed to complete it due to a lack of points for my grade, or if I found a better way to solve it.  

I mentioned my problems in one of our team meetings and Noah told us that he had encountered a similar problem and found a solution in using strings and python string operations. I did not know about this possibility before and it immediately solved a lot of issues for me, as it removed a great amount of the complexity and clutter from my program. However, I still needed to learn more about string operations in order to implement them in my Baccarat program. Therefore, I spent a couple more hours researching on stackoverflow and other forums and was finally able to figure out my first version of Baccarat. After that, I streamlined my code a little more and was fortunately able to finish it.  

In conclusion, I can say that I responded to the challenge by trying it out, then putting it aside and focusing on more important projects, then consulting my team about a solution, which ultimately led me to complete the project.

## 3. Interactions with Others
When you said that we would be working in teams all semester, I was a little concerned because I didn't really know anyone from the virtual people in class except for Fritz, with whom I had taken Discrete Mathematics before. After contacting Fritz, he told me that he wanted to form a group with me two other students, which turned out to be former classmates from the previous semester (Noah and Hiro). In retrospect, I can be very grateful to have been able to work with my teammates because they were able to assist me on multiple occasions and we were able to work in an efficient and collaborative environment.  

For example, (I believe) everyone on my team was struggling with the Elevator problem of the Sprint 2 deliverables. I did not know how to attack it, even after sitting on it and googling around for a long time. Fortunately, Noah was able to figure out an approach to solving it, which turned out to make a lot of sense to me. In general, Noah has been especially helpful and assisting and I would have definitely not been as successful in this class without him.  

I think that this also serves as a good example of the benefits of Scrumage, since it fosters collaboration through incentivizing teamwork for group deliverables.

## 4. Other Takeaways
Some content-related takeaways that I can take forward to my future classes and post-Rollins work are all topics that were related to probability. Minoring in Data Analytics, I enjoy working with data to create insights into problems and find ways to solve them. For this, knowing probabilistic concepts and theories is naturally vital. Additionally, as I am hoping to become a business consultant, the contents of this class - in combination with my DTA minor - will allow me to distinguish myself from the strong competition in the industry by being able to analyse problems from more viewpoints (including the data-driven approach).  

Additionally, I had a lot of fun building the simulators and working on the challenge project. Specifically, the Bayesian Spam Filtering project caught my interest: not because it was straight-forward, but because it was a very interesting topic. Even though this technique for spam filtering was relatively simple, and professional systems are much more dedicated, I started to research spam filters more. I actually found out that many (if not all) spam filtering algorithms are flawed, because they inevitably classify some emails as spam that only contain a single "trigger" word (such as "Nigerian" or "sex" for Outlook), which leads to "spam filter discrimination". While this was not an actual takeaway for other classes or post-Rollins work, I still found it very interesting.  

Lastly, another takeaway from this class that is not content-related is the actual teamwork that we were able to do. Personally, as discussed above, I am not a big supporter of “regular” group projects based on previously mentioned experiences. However, through Scrumage, I was able to learn how to work in a team environment. This is an incredibly important skill for life because I will always have to work with people, especially in consulting.

## 5. Pandemic Learning
As an international, virtual student, I was expecting this semester to be more stressful than the ones I had been at Rollins in person. However, I did not expect the load of all of my classes to weigh that heavy on me. Never before in my life had I had to do this much work, ever. Interestingly (and thankfully) enough, both the DTA 250 and CMS 380 course did not contribute negatively to this experience.  

The most challenging parts of this semester were the inflexibility of some of my professors, as well as the time difference between the U.S. and Germany (where I live). Clearly, as had been seen in the previous semester, which was partly online, students and professors are not able to interact on the same level as they would in-person. This causes the learning process to slow down, which is understandable. However, instead of learning from that experience, some of my professors chose to teach their full, regular curriculum in the condensed semester, which was also virtual. This combined with technical illiteracy and no Fall break led to an immense workload involving a lot of self-taught content. While this may only seem like a big disadvantage, I comfort myself in thinking that this will only help me in the future, when I have similar loads of work.  

Something that worked well for me during this time was adjusting my sleep schedule to stay up very late at night (around 2:30AM) in order to accommodate for meetings with professors/peers/teams working in the U.S., and just sleep in until around 9AM to still get enough sleep. Another thing that worked particularly well for me was the time I saved commuting to and from class, getting lunch, etc. This allowed me to devote more time towards my homework and other things I needed to do.

## 6. Online vs. In-Person
I strongly think that online education can never come close to in-person. The main reason for this is the level of interaction with professors and fellow students. No matter how good technology gets in the foreseeable future, we will never be able to engage as much virtually than we can in-person. Engagement is important to me because this strongly assists in my learning process. Additionally, not being engaged in class makes it easier to slack or get distracted, which I caught myself multiple times this semester in some other classes.  

Even though there are distinct disadvantages to online education, there are also some upsides. One of these would be the convenience of taking classes from home, which in turn also makes the cost of attendance significantly cheaper. 
Despite the downsides of online learning, I did not feel like I was at a disadvantage to my in-person peers. Of course they were able to interact with each other before and after class while I was sitting in my room alone, but during class time, I liked that you paid equal amounts of attention to the “folks at home” and the in-person people.  

## 7. Metacognition
Before taking DTA 250 and CMS 380, I did not know that I enjoyed working in teams. This was largely due to my experiences with previous groups, where I ended up doing most of the work myself. These classes have taught me that I am good at learning and working with a team. It makes it much easier to quickly resolve an issue, as someone else on the team is likely able to solve it. Additionally, I also had to learn that I get distracted extremely easily when I am not actively participating in class. I noticed this after the first three weeks of the semester, when the original “back-to-school” energy had faded off and I started struggling on some homework problems because I was not paying enough attention in class. After realizing this, I was able to address the issue by being more active in class.  

One specific metacognition strategy I started to use (accidentally, without knowing it) was to only take very brief notes during class and then completing them from memory after class. In the beginning, I started doing this because internet connection problems caused me to not always be able to see your notes long enough to copy everything I needed. Therefore, I just wrote down the most important parts (concept words, for example) of each new paper you started. After class was over, I would go through my notes again and complete them from memory. I realized that this was actually a pretty effective way of internalizing the contents of each class as I had to pay a lot of attention in class and actively re-work the contents after class, instead of just passively writing down everything you do.
