1.	Think back to how you felt at the beginning of the course. What were your expectations?
Before entering this course, I expected to learn new concepts about how to better model real life in simulations. This summer, my independent project required me to apply some basic simulation concepts when making my baseball simulator. While I had applied some of the concepts we covered in class, I was unaware of their theoretical background and most efficient implementation.
2.	Tell a story about a topic, problem, or assignment from the class that challenged you. How did you respond?
Creating the Fastpass simulation was particularly difficult for me. I think learning both about queueing theory and Python min heaps at the same time made it hard to combine the two. Consequently, I worked on the project ahead of time and with my partner to enable us to talk through the code.
3.	Tell a story about an interaction you had with another person because of this class.
Mariah and I worked together throughout the semester which was key in my understanding of course material. Mariah is more confident in her Math abilities, whereas I feel more confident in my coding abilities. For this reason, we were able to assist each other in gaining a deeper understanding of the material that did not come naturally to one and other. It was really nice to work with someone who was able to articulate concepts well that confused me.
4.	Other than programming, what have you learned from this class that you can take forward into your other classes or post-Rollins work?
I have learned that I gain knowledge best when doing practice of applying the concepts I learned in class. This gives me the opportunity to think critically about the content and work through problems I may encounter. It can be hard at times to really assess how well/or not you understand concepts without doing examples. This challenges the learner to apply what they’re learning without the “training wheels” of being in class.
5.	What has been your experience on learning during the pandemic, whether that was in-person or remote? What did you find most challenging? What (if anything) worked well for you during this time?
I found it challenging to work in groups while being remote. Theoretically, video conferencing should allow for better scheduling. Despite this, it was more difficult at times as some of my group mates were in different time zones. At times we ended up meeting during obscure hours to accommodate this. I think overall the group aspect of this class was very beneficial, but definitely had its obstacles.
6.	What are your thoughts on online vs. in-person education? Do you think there are positive aspects of online teaching that we should incorporate into our regular classes?
I very much prefer in-person learning to virtual. Even though virtually you can interact with the professor, I find it much easier to ask questions in person. I also find that my focus is much better in person. As far as the benefits of virtual learning, I found that during video conference meeting the screen share option was good for code development. This allowed everyone to easily see what was being programmed and exactly what others were talking about.
7.	Metacognition is the act of thinking about your own thinking. The single most important skill you can develop in college is self-awareness about your own learning process. What have learned about your own learning as a result of being in this class?

The most important thing I learned about my own learning was my necessity to rapidly apply concepts to real world projects. Specifically, getting started early on deliverable assignments challenged me to apply the concepts we had learned in class. During these applications, I made sure to work through anything that confused me and seek out the help of my partners if we were stuck. Doing these assignments in real time coinciding with conceptual learning helped my understanding of key concepts.
